hi Rob Garrett here and welcome to
design in motion the weekly series where
we explore important fundamentals in the
world of motion graphics today we're
going to talk about something called an
xref in cinema 4d working flexibly and
efficiently is really the only way to
get your motion graphics projects done
on time and still be able to react to
client changes recently I had to create
a scene with race cars chasing through a
cityscape about halfway through the
project the director decided that he
wanted to have different cars in the
scene xref saved my life
they helped me and they can help you to
an xref is a special object in cinema 4d
that points at an external see 4d scene
file what that allows you to do is to
keep that scene file updated and then
any place that xref uses it gets
automatically updated as well it makes a
very flexible workflow let me show you
what that means I'm going to go to the
create menu down to the xref submenu and
there's an ADD xref command but I don't
like to do that I prefer to add it
manually so I'm going to add in an xref
and this red icon here indicates that
the xref has no reference to it and so
under the object properties for the xref
I'm going to tell it to look at a scene
file that's this reference field so I'll
click on the load scene file button and
then I'll navigate to white sedan and if
I open the white sedan I now have this
white sit down here and it looks like
everything is a regular object in cinema
4d except that this X ref points back at
that white sedan if I click on the X ref
and go to the object properties and hit
open for edit it's going to open up that
white sedan model if I make a change to
this white sedan let's say I'll add a
cube to the scene and I'll put that cube
right on top of the car there we go now
there's a big block sitting on top of my
car I'm going to save command s and if I
switch back over to my untitled document
that I was just working out of it looks
like nothing's changed here but if I
click the reload button look at that the
reload button load it in that change I
made in the scene if I go back to the
scene and delete the cube go back to the
white sedan and select the cube and
delete it and then save command s
or control s on the pc and i'll go back
to my untitled document and reload it
again that cube disappears so any
changes i'm making that scene file get
updated wherever i'm using the xref so
let's take a look at that in a practical
application so I've got a car-chase here
and let me just rewind back to 0 and hit
play let's bring the perspective view
fullscreen when I hit play on this yum
yum I've got a really cool-looking car
chase here only problem is is that the
director has now told me that instead of
two white sedans they want a red
hatchback being chased by a green van so
I've got to swap the cars out well the
xref process makes that really quick and
easy the way I've built my hierarchy
here is that I have a dummy car object
that's being animated along a spline and
underneath that is a second null object
that is controlling the direction that
car is facing and then under that I've
got my xref now that may seem excessive
for a parenting arrangement but that
means that I can move this xref or swap
it out and not affect any of the
keyframes because the only objects that
have keyframes on them are the car one
steer or the car to steer and then the
align the spline tags those the only
places that have keyframes that means I
can move this around and it won't affect
my animation or I can swap it out
entirely and my animation will not
change
that's the flexible part so let's change
the first car to the red hatchback that
the director asked for so I'm going to
go to the xref select a load image
button and navigate to the desktop to my
xrefs folder and I'll grab the red
hatchback and then hit open it's going
to ask me are you sure you want to
update it yes I do and when I do that
you can see now that's changed to a red
hatchback and my animation is still
valid ah there goes a red hatchback I
kind of like that one now the second car
needs to be a green van so let's find
the xref for the second car that's in
this hierarchy right here when I select
this and I click the load scene file
button on the navigate to my desktop to
my decks rest folder and I'll grab the
green van out of there when I hit open
I tell it yes I want to update that
green van and boom there's the green van
I'll deselect my objects by clicking
over in the object manager and now when
I hit play I've got the same animation
with two different cars that's exactly
what the director wanted and it took me
no time at all because I used xrefs
xrefs truly are a game changer when it
comes to having a flexible workflow for
more on working with cinema 4d check out
the cinema 4d section of lynda.com
that's it for this edition of design and
motion keep it moving and I'll see you
next time